# Internationalization

While we use the same technology as other React projects, the ingenuity is in _how_ we have adopted the i18n.

## Technology

This scaffold uses the mainstream `react-i18next` module to handle all translations.

## Abstraction

The scaffold abstracts the implementation of internationalization. This means the app code does not know _how_ a text string gets translated, it only cares to receive a text string - not even a function call.

Each component has a local `hooks` folder wherein we find the file `useTranslation`.

```
const useConstants = () => {
    const t = useTranslate('footer');

    return {
        CREDIT_TEXT: t('creditText')
    };
};
```

The interesting part is the `footer`. This should mirror the name of the component (in camelCase). This represents the "namespace" within the dictionary.

This namespace registration allows us to not have to repeat ourselves (DRY principle), by not having to do something like `t('footer.creditText')`.

However, we are not going to stop there. We can do better.

We don't want the app code to know the `t(...)` syntax _at all_. This is implementation detail that the app code should be shielded away from - because it _could_ change in the future, which would mean a massive pull request with hundreds, if not thousands of files if the i18n package would be swapped out with some other syntax.

This is where we _map_ the output of the internationalization into constants which in turn _are_ the consumed tokens by the app code.

In CleanDX we want to future-proof our code as much as we can without prematurely over-optimizing our solutions. Providing simple abstractions gives us this great balance.
